[Applause]
I mean Shaquille O'Neal to the Hall of
Fame arjuna's Irving Alonzo Mourning
Bill Russell and Isiah Thomas ladies and
gentlemen Shaquille O'Neal
[Applause]
[Music]
I love to thank this wonderful gentleman
for bringing me in the Hall of Fame
Committee asked me to choose one but as
all the coaches know that have coached
me I'm not good with listening to rules
so I picked four you know before have
done so much for me
Alonzo Mourning arch nemesis arch
nemesis turned great friend we both
entered the league together in 1992 had
finished battles together see don't go
Mia dumped on him then a 2006 we joined
forces together to win his first and my
fourth title for the Miami Heat thank
you so Kevin better without you
Isaiah Thomas was a man who pulled me
aside one day at the all-star game and
explained to me how a team leader was
supposed to carry yourself we now work
together we're friends
he's a business mentor thank you very
much mr. Isaiah Bill Russell give it up
to the greatest big man to ever play a
game
when I first met mr. Russell we talked
for about three hours talked about his
life his gang and what he had to endure
as a player I realized then that I
should never complain about anything mr.
Russell's leaves a lot to me that you
would honor me on this day with your
presence
thank you sir and last but not least
julius dr. J Ervin hey I know he's your
guy and yeah he's your guy but he's
really my guy I always dreamed of being
as good as dr. J I used to dream about
this man so much that one time he broke
into my college drawing-room and woke me
up
remember that dot I thought I was dead I
was sleeping and a good-looking brother
man put his hand on my chest I was like
God I was like God I'm like Doc how the
hell you get in my room bro I've dreamed
about this man so much he moved next
door to my parents in Orlando I've
dreamed about the dog so much that he
answered the phone when I need a
sketball advice and now my idol walking
me into the Hall of Fame thank you
the Gregg Jim Bob men on one side May
dusk if anyone can give another person
is believing in them so I'd like to
start by saying thank you to those who
first believed in me
our first thank you goes to my beautiful
mother you'll see a little nail
we started off alone together in Newark
New Jersey with you being a single mom
my first recollection was of you
fighting with the bus driver because he
believed he refused to believe that a
two-year-old it could be this big but
also I remember you ultimately
convincing him with that right cross
mama said knock you out and him holding
his hand over his red right I agree
saying yes man kids to an under do right
for free
I apologize though we were alone family
was never too far away a great
grandmother Siller O'Neal grandmother
Odessa Chambliss uncle Roy on vivvy on
Velma because of the love and generosity
of family mom and I always had a place
to lay our heads and a place where I was
able to have my favorite food which
happens to be everything then one day
while working on City Hall mom met the
man who will become the biggest male
influence in my life sergeant Phillip
authorized
my father sergeant Phillip Harrison was
a disciplinarian he was firm but fair it
was my first exposure on how an
effective leader operated and when I did
listen I was introduced to his alter ego
affectionately known as the belt he was
a student of the game it's because of
him I was introduced to the game and
developed a love for basketball he
realized that I was going to be a big
guy so I remember he made me memorize
three names and he would quiz me on them
and his eyes these three guys were gods
of the game Bill Russell give it up
Chamberlain
and Kareem abdul-jabbar and Bill again
I'm honored that she was able to walk me
in and I know they will to my father are
in heaven smiling down upon us and if I
know my father he's up there arguing
with will chairman right now trying to
convince will that his son is the most
dumb bit big man that ever played a game
my folks my first exposure to leadership
was when I was given babysitting duties
while mom and dad work and having to
Corral my brothers and sisters in a way
this is where I left my first
corporation my sister Latifah was my VP
of dishes
my sister Aisha was the chief operating
officer of bed-making
and my brother Jamal was my director of
leaves they would always report to me as
I would be in deep thought eating
bologna sandwiches and frosted flakes
and watching General Hospital Luke and
Laura elbow by the way but seriously
guys love you thanks for always being
there and be a part of this enjoyable
ride I commit with the day that gave me
great anxiety was when we left nope New
Jersey and we ended up in while flicking
West Germany it was really here to start
up a series of events that will help
create the character known as Scheck
it's important to know that my roof
started untraditionally with no fanfare
so matter of fact I was cut by my coach
freshmen and sophomore year and I
thought about giving it up we could have
all ended there but there were three
people who would change the direction of
my life
Florida big marches before where are you
why you got back there
Fort McMurray was my first official
coach we had a travel team similar than
AAU and what I loved about Ford is he
saw something in me that others didn't
he gave me the freedom to emulate my
favorite player dr. J yes people I was a
69 guard I wash the fish they're paid
safe Pittsburgh 50 times undo all this
moves next Arace Iceman
no not George Gervin but Chris Woodard
Chris where are you stand up Chris Chris
what thank you Chris was a six foot
seven army base legend this government
leg moves
earned him the nickname ice when Elvis
didn't pick this scrawny 69 kidney who
couldn't play with it and dunk it was
Iceman who will not only picked me but
push me to hone my skills and pursue my
dream of becoming the NBA player thank
you guys and last but not least daddy
Dale Brown
my father came in the house one day and
I was sitting on the couch feet stinking
and he just came and threw the paper
get your ass up if there's a college
coach Tubby he might get a scholarship
come listen to him talk I was six nine
sixteen couldn't play definitely wasn't
going to college so I get up there but
before I go up there I'm like you know
what I'm talking to a college coach let
me let me go in this dictionary and pull
out a big word so I'll see you smart so
the word I chose was extremities so
coach Brown is talking and you know he's
he gets done with the speech and I go up
to him I said coach hi my name is
Shaquille O'Neal sir can you send me a
program to strengthen my lower
extremities and coach Brown looked at me
and he said sure how long you been in
the Army soldier I said I'm not an army
I'm I'm only 13 what what where's your
father's like he's in the sauna I want
to offer you a scholarship right now and
you know he offered me a scholarship on
that day coach thank you
but before I made my mark at LSU my
family and I would leave West Germany
and moved to San Antonio Texas where I
would attend high school it was here
where I was given my first nickname
coach Joel Smith and Dave Maduro would
lovingly refer to me as big old sumbitch
[Music]
[Applause]
they would find true story they will
find unique and wonderful ways to
express their love for example coach I
need some shoes I can't afford no size
18 you big old Sloane bitch coach what
time is the game I don't know but your
big old sumbitch you better get 40
points in 22 rebounds and when we want
to stay child in 1989 with an impressive
36 no record they both called me and say
you big ol sumbitch we love you I knew
you can do a big old sumbitch actually
thought my name was big old sumbitch I
could make one town of the announces
seven one from San Antonio Texas
Shaquille O'Neal that's a big sumbitch
it's a big old son bitch right there
[Applause]
excuse my language children it's also
here where I realized that cliche is
true there is no I in team
cooking and Ellen without Doug and Dan
and Samberg Joe Cavallaro Darren Matthew
Rob Dunn Eric Baker Dwayne Cyrus just to
name a few
and then it was time for college and as
I mentioned before I didn't choose LSU
LSU chose me there was no way I was
letting down coach Brown but once again
it was time to eat a big slice of humble
pie as I played behind two of the
greatest players ever to grace LSU
history Chris Jackson I've moved up duro
and Stanley Roberts
these guys set the bar high I knew what
I had to do to get to their level it's
funny but one of my motivations was to
hear what dick Vai tell would have to
say about me and that day would happen
December 1990 LSU versus Arizona dick
vie tell comes in the locker room and
gives a scintillating speech I don't
know what scintillating mean he uses it
so I may use it versus Arizona gives us
a speech and then he pulled you to the
side said Shaq
they got Chris Mills they got Brian
Williams they got Shawn ropes they I'm
like number two you might not win but
have a good game and in my mind I'm
saying to myself thanks dick
[Applause]
thanks a lot dick but it was at that
moment where I realized I could create
my own destiny and thanks to mr. Fox
hell I ended up with 28 points 19
rebounds and I don't think he realized
how much he motivated me and pissed me
off at the same time I do want to thank
the people in Louisiana mr. mrs. Malley
Tony and Dane Geno my favorite
restaurant Webb's barbershop Shawn and
Bud Connors and the rest of the family
because I heard bits of I tell say that
when she killed on the other side to
leave LSU he will be the number one pick
made me comfortable and try my luck in
the MBA like to thank the DeVos family
in Orlando Magic for drafting me in 1992
like to thank Dennis Scott he showed me
what it was to be a professional I like
to think pretty Hardaway we had some
impressive years ago I'd like to thank
Nick Anderson for missing those four
free throws in a row of my first NBA
Finals
I'm just playing Nick but when I was
writing this speech I was like you know
what it'll be pretty funny if a terrible
free-throw shooter criticized a bad one
and then I said to myself damn I should
have listened to Rick Barry but then I
also said to myself you know what I
rather be a terrible free-throw shooter
that in about 15 minutes we'll be in the
Hall of Fame so Rick thanks but no
thanks too damn big to be shooting
underhanded after orlando i ended up in
la Kazam too was not yet in production
but was in production was the beginning
of a new lego dynasty first-fruit few
years we're not easy filled with trials
and tribulations with Jerry West and the
bus family and their objective of
rebuilding a dynasty knew exactly what
to do bring in the Zen master Phil
Jackson
many may not know this but Phil always
made us meditate in a room filled with
sage Scottie knows what I'm talking
about now I don't know what sage is but
I know what it smells like
so one day I'm sitting in a room me gpo
Kobe I've never been high before but if
this is how I think I was it so I'm
sitting there and finally have a
conversation with Phil I said Phil come
on now and Phil says it's not it's the
cousin of cannabis so I said okay Phil
whatever that means
so starting today Phil and I will be
opening medicinal sage dispensaries all
across the yes
and turn we should be in that meeting
like this like to thank Big Shot Bob
Bradshaw Rick Fox Horace Grant
tyronn lue Jeff and George Gary VD Mike
Penberthy Dale Harris mr. Rambis miss
bus and last but not least the great
Kobe Bryant a guy that would push me
Kobe Bryant a guy that would push me and
help me win three titles in the row it
also helped me get pushed off the team
and traded to Miami
[Applause]
but it was in Miami where two of my
favorite people helped me obtain my full
championship
Pat Riley and d-wave but I'd be remiss
if I didn't name other key players James
Posey Jason Williams Antoine Walker
hall-of-famer Gary Payton stand-up Gary
Udonis Haslem and hall-of-famer Alonzo
Mourning
Miami Beach will always be one of my
favorite cities like to thank the
Ariston family down to Luke and family
Miami Beach PD Doral Police Department
model Ramos Steven Henry prime 112 dr.
cup and Barry University then after
Miami I played in Phoenix like to thank
Steve Kirk he was the first general
manager to actually call me and say I
was being traded all the other times I
found out because allowed a Steven a
sniff on ESPN
[Applause]
like thank Mike D'Antoni Steve Nash mari
stottlemyre Phoenix training to staff
and my neighborhood Florida Grant Hill
at the Phoenix I played with the King
and Cleveland after that I went to
Boston and played with three future Hall
of Famers Paul the truth Pearce
Kevin big-ticket garnett and one of the
greatest shoes of all time Ray Allen so
it's been quite a career and nowaday
what motivates me is applying the life
lesson that I learned from my parents so
long ago I learned to be giving happy to
say that my mom and I are approaching
our 25th year of shakka close you don't
know a shocker closes I put on a Santa
Claus thing and I go around and I pass
out toys thank you
happy to say my mom and I are we are
approaching our 25th year of Shaq's
giving so we go to homeless shelters and
feed them what we would eat things give
it you know gary fried chicken macaroni
goes from cornbread on that bang some
iced tea some collard greens happy to
say that I built the state of our movie
theaters in low income area where I was
born and raised in nope New Jersey I
also learned to work hard but not to
take myself too seriously like sitting
in a Buick I know I couldn't fit in
hey they paid me three million dollars
what you want me to say no oh yeah it
was like three males like I fit
I fit overall I've done my best to be a
good role model to the youth and to
those who would look up to me my message
to the youth has always been the same
never give up
work hard and continue to learn not only
do I talk to talk I try and walk the
walk
I left LSU in 1992 2000 I received my
bachelor's I'm the mom said she's known
Whoopi
mama had an alter ego to it and the name
was bigger built 2004 received my MBA in
2012 I received my doctorate in
education
speaking of the youth I have six
wonderful children three daughters my
oldest two here stand up baby
mr. hero she doesn't know this yet but
after she graduate from college she will
be attending law school a mirror he
needs to end up in a mirror who loves
volleyball and basketball I think you
should choose LSU your daddy knows some
people had to make a call for you when I
go to Mimi's volleyball games the
parents hate me because I'll be telling
spike in any feets baby I want all this
bloody right here spike it anyplace love
you meet me
my youngest baby maiara stand up baby
I don't like to put pressure on my
babies but she works out with with my
sons and I think it's fair to say one
day if she continues me all will
probably be the best woman's basketball
player ever she's that good then I have
three boys mouths standup
miles doesn't know this but after
college he will also be attending law
school
yes you are already paid for cuz already
paid for in their Sherif stand up Sherif
my son Shareef is already one of the top
high school juniors in the country and I
hope to see you up here one day son
and last but not least my twin Shakir
O'Neal stand up Shakir
[Music]
if you ever want to know how bad I was
as a little kid you need to meet you
here
damn be bad we had a conference a couple
weeks ago at a school and the principal
was complaining and I just started
laughing and he was like miss O'Neill is
a funny I was like no it's me I seen him
before his me what shakir is also a
fabulous little player and it's on I
hope to see you up here as well
my kids are the best kids in the world
because they understood that in Daddy's
line of work I couldn't make many PTA
meetings I miss some birthdays I missed
some Christmases I missed some school
place I like to think I'm never and
ishani for being a wonderful mother
stand up he's good
[Music]
you guys you guys have done a perfect
job thank you but of two things my kids
always knew one not to disturb daddy
during that time on game day
and they knew that daddy's love for them
is unconditional and it still is and
forever will always be love you guys
[Applause]
like to thank the fans mothers and
daughters fathers and sons
every time you ruled on us please know I
heard you
especially when I missed free throws
shat bend your knees shan't concentrated
Shack play defense shut up I found so
much inspiration looking into your faces
you guys were a part of every win thank
you for being such a big part of our
league appreciate you very much give
yourself a round of applause
gotta thank the commissioners - best
commissioners and sports David Stern and
Adam Silver stand-up guys here David and
Adam stand up
daddy's not here these guys have taken
MBA to Heights that none of us could
imagine and they've done it with
integrity I'm proud of my relationship
with them and David even though you
suspended me ten times hold on to the
amount of 4.2 million dollars I'll still
love you David but if you want to write
the check I'll take it
tax-free please and lastly I have to
acknowledge the people that have been
particularly influential in my life my
first agent Leonard armato who taught me
how to maximize my potential thank you
letter
my uncle Mike Parrish
my uncle Jerome for those who don't know
Jerome Jerome was always the guy sitting
behind me on the bench eating popcorn
smacking me around bossing me around
thanks something's wrong like to thank
Lester knispel my business manager Denis
Roach Gary Oberstein Perry Rogers Colin
Smeaton Cynthia Atterbury kitty Chicago
chef Tomas chef Alex Alex Miami Derek
Mustafa Karen Rock Geena and a guy who
cared for my father from from the time
they both retired from the Army until he
passed away uncle Burt Solomon thank you
very much stand up uncle Burt
my father couldn't be here with us
tonight but I left the seat empty for
and I know he's he's watching and I just
want to say thank you thank you guys for
everything today is a great day day of
honor
humility great sacrifice and resolve to
keep on keeping on I like to think that
the Hall of Fame Committee like to
congratulate the other Hall of Famers
aiu was a bad boy he was
two quick stories you know i like to
touch guards up when they come in the
lane it's no secret I'm gonna put him on
the ass I didn't know that so first time
we played at a I told Gary I said let
him go baseline I'm gonna touch him up I
touched him up he came back the next
five times so it got to be a point where
we started playing chess
if I touch him up too many times gonna
be sitting over there next to sage
smoking Phil and he'll take over the
game
or I just had to let him go so I let him
go congratulations ai yai man yau-man
was the first to block my shot three
times in a row and people like to say
he's seven seven but he's really like my
favorite convenience store 7-eleven he
was a great player and he tricked me
three years I never spoke to Yahoo's I
thought it was a language barrier there
and then one game he hit me with a team
Olajuwon being being fade away and I
said hey nice move and he said thanks my
brother
you speak English he's like shet you
never talk to me of course I speak
English okay I'd like to thank David
Levy and the Turner family for giving me
this great life after basketball it's a
true honor to be a part of this great
fraternity at the age of 10 my father
said son have you listened to me you
told me this day would happen and
hopefully when the father's quizzing
this sound great big man of the game
hopefully Shaquille O'Neal's name will
be in the answer thank you very much for
attending tonight's ceremony
yes once a Shalom a wiedersehen
Alex how you say bye in Spanish adios
Salaam alaikum
and peace love you guys very much thank
you
[Applause]